Lifecycle Hooks.
Hooks are named the same but
prefixed with on in camel case.
And if you come from react,
this will look familiar to you.
So here we've got on mounted and
we've got console.log state.count.
So, it's similar in the sense
that we're still just calling
mounted as a function, right?
And this time we're really calling it
as a function is not even a method,
it's a function.
And we're saying on mounted and
we, create a function and
then we're able to access or
create things.
It's really good, composition API is
really good for reusable objects.
So, some examples if we wanted to extract
just the logic without the template,
we might use it for getting the dimensions
of a viewport in a component.
We might use it for
gathering specific mousemove events.
the base elements of charts.
We might use it for clip boards,
or media queries, or dark mode.
So here are a couple of examples of where
we might want to encapsulate that logic,
and use it in a few different
places among different components.
But we just want the logic part,
we just want that piece of it.
So we are able to do that.
So a couple people might ask, how do I
merge the older API with the newer API?
And I didn't find a good example online,
so I made one,
that showed options API and
composition API.
So here's a CodeSandbox
which is similar to code
creates an entire application
that you can use and share.
So if I have that app that we are used to
and we have things like our components,
like we were used to right
we have that app.view.
We have a components folder where we
can put components that we're using in
this application.
This first app.view,
is using the options API.
In other words, it's got,
the import and then we've got the data.
But if we wanted to merge the two
what I would do is, I would say, and
we've got computed and we've got methods,
I would say set up inside here.
And here we have a new
folder called composable.
And this is becoming kind of our standard,
for
how we're going to define when
we're using a composition API.
So I wouldn't put it in components,
I would put it in a folder
called composable.
And let's say I wanted
to use window width,
like I wanted to find
the value of a window width.
And I wanted to just encapsulate that
bit of logic, I don't want a template,
I'm not using a component.
I just want that little bit of
logic in a JavaScript file.
What I would do is say
at import ref unmounted.
At this point we're gonna
say at view composition API.
This will change coming
up as we move into,
view becoming stable.
We say export function use window width,
we've got a ref.
We've got our mounted hook,
where we calculate the window inner width,
and we're gonna plot that
window inner width to this ref,
which you can think of as data,
width equals zero, right?
And we're returning the width,
that's the thing that we're getting.
If we go into the app into the setup,
we're bringing in use window width
from the composable folder and
we're saying const width
equals use window width.
Remember, that's what we export
default we export it, and
we're returning width and now we can
use width, inside of our template.
We could say, this.width times two,
we could use it in methods.
And it's still that this dot width right,
that this dot width is now
available to us in the options API, so
you can absolutely use them together.
So that is reporting an alert,
that we captured using the options API
in that encapsulated bit of logic.
You can also use them with templates, but
this is kind of like how we
thought about mixings, right?
We're thinking about just
encapsulating a bit of functionality
that we would like to use in
other places in our application.